Resting in the Twofold Purpose: A Prayer of Aspiration for the Three Vows Namo! In the spacious expanse of all the buddhas' kindness, From the center of a cloud canopy of joyful benefit, A rain of nectar of the three vows falls- May the sprout of supreme liberation burst forth! Shaving off thick black locks of plaited hair Cuts through all the fetters of existence. May the radiant appearance of fresh saffron robes Fill the entire three realms with the light of benefit and joy! Firmly planting the root with the three rites of purification, The stems of moral engagement and avoidance unfurl Into exquisite flowers subduing the enemy of existence- May hundreds of gardens of Dharma discipline flourish! Friendship that exudes from the cool moonlight of kindness Opens the kumuda flower of joy for all beings, At once clearing the thick shadows of saṃsāra- May we live with abundance of such untainted nectar! May the great jeweled vine of generosity, morality, and patience As well as joyous effort, concentration, and wisdom Follow the path of the transcendent perfections To the abundant wealth of supreme enlightenment! On the immense ocean of Dharma scriptures and experience Sways the boat of the three kinds of knowledge, Crossing over on the reliable path of the Buddha's words- May we arrive at the island of omniscience! The pristine radiance of the sun of lucid explanations Unfolds the lotus of intelligence in the fortunate, Simultaneously clearing the fog of mistaken paths- May the light of the Buddha's teachings be all pervading! In a place of solitude, wholly released from the eight worldly concerns, With all distracting activities left far behind, And with unwavering focus in supreme concentration, May the two purposes be utterly and spontaneously fulfilled! Sprinkled with the drops of ripening nectar From the excellent vase holding the Vajrayāna lineage, May the ground of liberation be perfectly moistened, And the seed of unfaltering samaya be sown! Fully seizing the vajras of body, speech, and mind, With discernment in mind of the subtle and coarse, Liberated in space beyond the boundaries of preservation, May the true nature of the path of secret mantra be realized! Consecrated by the sublime waters of generation and completion, Fully mastered in the channels, winds, and drops, May I become a dwelling place for all beings In the shade of the opened white lotus of the four kāyas! The ultimate mind of timeless wisdom resides nowhere; May we delight in celebration of spontaneous joy! In the great sphere of total freedom from self-referential vision, May we forever abide in the essence of the magical display! Constantly partaking of the nectar of the three trainings, Enraptured in the union of bliss and emptiness, May the order of gathered saṅgha of indivisible knowledge and liberation Vanquish all the realms of conditioned existence! By this, the spring air of the two accumulations Ushers in the fullness of summer to enjoy. May all beings be fully pacified of deluded emotions And live in harmonious glory of Dharma goodness! Like this, on these fragrant winds of pure aspiration, Propelled by a canopy of clouds of the three trainings, Extracting the glorious nectar of higher and ultimate good, May all beings overcome the torments of saṃsāra! Holding tightly to the precious trainings, with a mind determined for liberation from saṃsāra, appears to be a defining characterstic of all aspirations for the teachings. This was written, therefore, as a mere aspiration for such by the ignorant one named Abhaya ("Fearless One"). 
